so today I'm here to tell you that I
finished one of my tasks which was an
implementation of replicated Global's
array in Delta charities and I'll
explain you briefly explain you why that
Delta charities may be interesting or
better than the other charities okay so
let's take an example there are two
basic types of charities so they are
state-based and operation based okay so
the state-based ones work by replicating
the states in forming broadcasting or
gossiping about their own state and
incorporating other peer States into
joining other peer States into their
states so let's quite quick example with
the growing with sets like a grown Lea
sorry growing the counter this is wrong
let's say that we have like three nodes
we have the first one incremented
already to three and then this toy to
three then a second one to two and the
third one to one so three plus one plus
two equals six let's see how they
propagate oops low play could you please
play doesn't play okay oh okay so first
one propagates here
joins so it's due to one propagates to
the above due to one my point wise
maximum is three to one then this one
propagates here T to one point wise
maximum is three to one
and now yeah back here three two one and
sync but it's the same so it sings so
it's six okay so now now the whole state
is think it's all converged this is this
is state based charities this is a very
simple example of state based charities
the problem we set by charities is that
the state tends to be very big for more
complex realities okay so a solution to
that is to have operation by charities
they form a sequence of operations
locally okay so let's say we have a
nodes called a and already has two
operations a 1 and a 2 and so this
operation depends on this causally so
the local causality is is pointed by the
arrow and now there's a node B that
knows about these operations but appends
a new operation on the head of the
operation log and then he appends a new
operation again and then operation then
no they appends another operation but
meanwhile it only knew about this
operation it doesn't know about this
operation yet ok so they haven't talked
to each other about this this one only
this one so he appends on to this one
ok and so now we have like no they
opposed this one and node B depends to
this one so they don't know about each
other yet at this point fully so they
are commutative okay so you have to
store so we never know when you have
when you have commutative operations so
you have their solutions to this I
learned recently but in principle you
have to store all the operations because
you have may have these operations in
the future of this one right we have to
store this one because you may have
operations in the future of this one and
the same goes for all the operations
then on the backlog okay so there is one
more or less compact solution to this
which is to infer causal stability on an
operation which means that if an
operation is causing with stable means
that there will be no concurrent
operations to this one okay so in the
future of this one okay that's so far
one that so it it there's a way to infer
that by using vertical ox when you hear
the state of audio operations with the
assumption that you know all the members
that's the assumption but
I think there are also ways around
having dynamic membership okay but this
is not what I'm going so then we have
another type of charities which are
based on the state-based ones but our
deltas and on Delta based charities the
replicates communicate via Delta's not
by the entire states so a doctor is not
exactly an operation so that an
intuition is that the Delta should be a
fraction of the states okay and a Delta
is idempotent when apply to the States
an operation is not that important so if
your party same operation two times it's
it it yields different states okay so
but applying a Delta two times to the
same state should yield the same the
same state so joining s 1 and Delta 1
you of ss2 joining is 2 Delta 1 again
still yields as 2 so the advantages that
Delta's can be joined together ok so
they're easy to bar for you can buffer a
bunch of Delta's compressed into by
joining them you compress them and then
you can send them you don't have to
buffer all the up as you do in the
operation by charities you don't have to
buffer all of them you can join them so
they are so they are associative also so
doctor based charity is defined by state
set initial set instead of mutator
functions have Delta mutator functions
that return deltas and you have a joint
function which also the state-based
charities have and something that
returns the value the view of the
charity so so an example based on on the
previous grow only counter is that so
state set is the vector of integers
greater or equal to 0
she'll set is this vector clock and the
Delta mutator function is just an
increment on my on my if I'm if I'm not
note zero I only send the value of this
one okay so I don't have to set the
whole state as I was sending before I
just send an update to my state that's a
delta okay but it's not an operation
because if I join the result a delta
with the set the my States I still get
my state's okay so the join is very
similar it's the same join as a state by
security okay so it's the point wise
maximum of the both states and that's it
and so all this to tell that I finished
the first JavaScript implementation of a
replicated growable array that and the
nice thing about a replicated global
array is that it maintains user
intention so when there is conflict
let's say the user inputs I will
increase this these are the tests let's
say that user you have two replicas okay
replicate one and replica - let's say
replica one wise a and B replicas to
write C and D okay in their concurrent
operations and when the direct the
deltas are exchanged it both of them
could converge to a b c d and b c d on
both of them one of the results could be
one of development results would could
be a c b d right but that doesn't
preserve the intention of of both users
because if i write I write ours here at
Bob I want to convert the result to be
Alice Bob or Bob Alice and not an
interleaving of the characters
okay so yeah so that's why this type of
strategies cool for text editing okay
and so as far as I know this is the
first implementation of a delta state by
security over in our GA and and the
tests are passing so yeah and that's it
thank you Oh any question is it too much
yeah you're fragmented yeah okay
the data is that by saying okay so is
this is just like the it's not
documented yet so here's a with me okay
the test could be something like so I
think you saw well so yeah so you can
push insert that remove at all the array
etc way things this is just the RGA
there are other charity types that like
set like types or map like types or
array like types this is an array like
type of sequence and then you have to so
remove by push and then you get the
value which computes the view so the
array does that answer your question
yeah there's also some some events that
will be emitted once the the replica
updates any more questions no okay thank
you